# Project 0: Getting Real

## Preliminaries

>Fill in your name and email address.

FirstName LastName <email@domain.example>

>If you have any preliminary comments on your submission, notes for the TAs, please give them here.



>Please cite any offline or online sources you consulted while preparing your submission, other than the Pintos documentation, course text, lecture notes, and course staff.



## Booting Pintos

>A1: Put the screenshot of Pintos running example here.



## Debugging

#### QUESTIONS: BIOS 

>B1: What is the first instruction that gets executed?
ljmp $0xf000, $0xf000e05b


>B2: At which physical address is this instruction located?
[f000:fff0] = 0xfffff0



#### QUESTIONS: BOOTLOADER

>B3: How does the bootloader read disk sectors? In particular, what BIOS interrupt is used?
Use read_sector()
int $0x13 & AH = 0x42 => Extended Read Sectors


>B4: How does the bootloader decides whether it successfully finds the Pintos kernel?
cmpb $0x20, %es:4(%si)


>B5: What happens when the bootloader could not find the Pintos kernel?
Go on and check the next partition
If all tries fails, the no_boot_partition is called and causes int $0x18


>B6: At what point and how exactly does the bootloader transfer control to the Pintos kernel?
load_kernel()
Load the partion for 512 kB to 0x2000, then transfer control by ljmp *start



#### QUESTIONS: KERNEL

>B7: At the entry of pintos_init(), what is the value of expression `init_page_dir[pd_no(ptov(0))]` in hexadecimal format?
0x0


>B8: When `palloc_get_page()` is called for the first time,

>> B8.1 what does the call stack look like?
>>#0  palloc_get_page (flags=(PAL_ASSERT | PAL_ZERO)) at ../../threads/palloc.c:112
>>#1  0xc00203aa in paging_init () at ../../threads/init.c:168
>>#2  0xc002031b in pintos_init () at ../../threads/init.c:100
>>#3  0xc002013d in start () at ../../threads/start.S:180
>>

>> B8.2 what is the return value in hexadecimal format?
>>0xc0101000
>> 

>> B8.3 what is the value of expression `init_page_dir[pd_no(ptov(0))]` in hexadecimal format?
>>0x0
>> 



>B9: When palloc_get_page() is called for the third time,

>> B9.1 what does the call stack look like?
>>#0  palloc_get_page (flags=PAL_ZERO) at ../../threads/palloc.c:112
>>#1  0xc0020a81 in thread_create (name=0xc002e895 "idle", priority=0, function=0xc0020eb0 <idle>, aux=0xc000efbc) at ../../threads/thread.c:178
>>#2  0xc0020976 in thread_start () at ../../threads/thread.c:111
>>#3  0xc0020334 in pintos_init () at ../../threads/init.c:119
>>#4  0xc002013d in start () at ../../threads/start.S:180
 

>> B9.2 what is the return value in hexadecimal format?
>>0x10c03000
>> 

>> B9.3 what is the value of expression `init_page_dir[pd_no(ptov(0))]` in hexadecimal format?
>>0x102027
>> 



## Kernel Monitor

>C1: Put the screenshot of your kernel monitor running example here. (It should show how your kernel shell respond to `whoami`, `exit`, and `other input`.)

#### 

>C2: Explain how you read and write to the console for the kernel monitor.
